INTJ
Rational – Architects pride themselves on the power of their minds. They can reframe nearly any challenge as an opportunity to hone their rational thinking skills and
  expand their knowledge – and with this mindset, they can devise inventive solutions to even the most arduous of problems.
Informed – Few personality types are as devoted as Architects to developing rational, correct, and evidence-based opinions. Rather than hunches or half-baked assumptions,
  they base their conclusions on research and analysis. This gives them the conviction that they need to stand up for their ideas, even in the face of disagreement.
Independent – For these personalities, conformity is more or less synonymous with mediocrity. Creative and self-motivated, Architects strive to do things their own way.
  They can imagine few things more frustrating than allowing arbitrary rules or conventions to stand in the way of their success.
Determined – This personality type is known for being ambitious and goal-oriented. Architects won’t rest until they’ve achieved their own definition of success – which 
  usually entails mastering the subjects and pursuits that matter to them.
Curious – Architects are open to new ideas – as long as those ideas are rational and evidence-based, that is. Skeptical by nature, Architects are especially drawn to 
  offbeat or contrarian points of view. And if the facts prove them wrong, they are generally happy to revise their opinions.
Original – Without Architects, the world would be a far less interesting place. This personality type’s rebellious streak is responsible for some of history’s most 
  unconventional ideas and inventions. Even in their everyday lives, Architects force the people around them to consider new (and sometimes startling) ways of looking 
  at things
(16Personalities)
  
The strengths presented by 16 Personalities closely aligns with the values of the VIA survey which theoretically validates them somewhat. Again, it speaks of how I use
empiricism to take in the world and do so in a mostly rational and logical manner with evidence-based information being the most highly valued. Where it falls short
however is that I am more complex that one of sixteen personalities. This label does not take into account other ways of knowing that have value to me. Stereotypically,
INTJ is a very rational and cold personality. I meet some of these like introversion and evidence-based values but I also appreciate non-rational ways of knowing such 
as emotions and intuition. I do value evidence above all else but it is an incomplete picture. Similarly, I'm fond of my friends, I enjoy being charitable, humorous, and 
many other qualities more alien to an INTJ. This personality type is a good first step to make myself more familiar with who I may be but it is nothing more than a 
preliminary tool that may help guide me to utilize my strengths.
