This document represents the ongoing work towards the three SMART goals for GPS-974

Specific: Well defined, clear, and unambiguous
Measurable: With specific criteria that measure your progress toward the accomplishment of the goal
Achievable: Attainable and not impossible to achieve
Realistic: Within reach, realistic, and relevant to your life purpose
Timely: With a clearly defined timeline, including a starting date and a target date. The purpose is to create urgency.

Goal 1 (S): I would like to organize and plan my work schedule such that I do an average of < 8 hours of work 
    afterhours per week by the end of the semster. (Wellness and life balance)
M: I will know this goal is achieved if I can have 3 consecutive weeks where this goal is met. I can track my working hours 
    with a timer on my phone and log this time in a spreadsheet to observe its progress.
A: This goal should be achievable if I work at it. I believe that 8 hours is doable and can be spread across the week as
    needed, especially on weekends. I think it would be unreasonable to have 0 hours as it is too inflexible.
R:Achieving less than 8 hours per week should encourage me to work harder during the day and more efficiently in the evenings. 
    Currently, I occupy too much of my time with work and I should make an effort to have more balance with other activities.
T: This will begin on the last week of September and progress indefinetly although I would like to have it acheived and
    maintained prior to the the end of the semester
Reflection: My first goal ended up being unsuccessful. I thought that eight hours of extracurricular work or less would be plenty but I found that I overestimated
myself and underestimated graduate school. This goal became apparent to me when the important people in my life mentioned that they felt that there was not enough 
time for them outside of work. I heard this and realized that there wasn’t much time for anything outside of work. Although I did not make this goal, and in fact 
have spent more time working, I have made some different changes to my life because of it. I learned that the time I spent was proportional to deadlines, projects,
and the days of the week. I learned that I work almost every weekend but take most Friday evenings off. I learned that I scale down my effort leading up to a holiday
and spike it before different deadlines. I may not have limited the time but I learned how to make the time I did have more valuable. I put limits on my phone and 
other devices to close apps after certain time allotments to prevent the ‘mindless scroll’. I blocked off time in my calendar for certain activities that I valued.
I made sure to listen to my mind and body to ease up when I needed some reprieve. Although the numbers I reported may not indicate a certain quality of life, the 
information I was able to gather from it was able to improve it for me. By understanding myself and my temporal demands, I could shape the rest of my time around it.
In doing so, I found that there was more time than I realized and learned to do more with less. (290 words)

Goal 2 (S): I would like to have a rough draft of a review paper on something I am not familiar with done by the end of the 
    semester. (Research and project management)
M: I know that this goal will be achieved when I submit the draft to my supervisor for review.
A: I know that this goal is achievable as I am giving myself 2 months to work on it, which should be ample time. I am also 
    partial to the opportunity to coauthor it with a colleage which will strengthen our professional relationship. I have
    collaborated on similar projects in the past so I feel confident on my skills in this field. The largest barriers will
    be other goals and projects and managing my time effectively.
R: This goal is reasonable for the above reasons. It is relevant as it will benefit my career by producing this paper and 
    will make more familiar with this field of research. It will also aquaint me better with library services and the many
    subtleties of writing research papers.
T: This goal starts immediately as I brainstorm a topic and beging my literature review. This goal will be completed in 
    December at the end of the semester.
Reflection: My second goal also ended up short of where I would consider it completed. I set a goal of writing the first draft of a review article by the end of the
term but this ended up being unrealistic in my current work environment. I found myself heavily burdened with lab work with minimal energy to continue working on it 
beyond my other projects after hours. However. I was able to submit my project proposal at the end of the term which fortunately had much overlapping information which
will speed up the writing process. At this time, I have an outline prepared and am in the midst of my literature review. I thought this goal would be attainable by 
doing a little bit each day but found that I procrastinated on it and was overwhelmed with other responsibilities. It was a good opportunity to examine my own 
capabilities and limitations and learn that things don’t just happen without dedicated time to them, often more than I originally allocate. What I think the hidden 
benefit from this goal was to get to work with my colleagues. I was able to make contact with a member on my committee on this project and collaborate with one of my
labmates. Beyond the skills in writing and research that this offers, I gained some experience in using my network and in working collaboratively. My next steps from
here are to continue on this project and turn thoughts and ideas into words on the page. There is no shortage of information out there, I just need to buckle down and
condense it onto a page. With the winter break approaching I think it will provide a lovely opportunity to get some writing done. (288 words)

Goal 3 (S): I would like to keep a journal outlining my experiences as a grad student, updated at-least biweekly, for my 
    first semester (Reflection and interpersonal skills)
M: This goal is measurable by checking if at least two entries are added to this journal every week until the end of the 
    semester. It is expected that some weeks there may be fewer, but the goal is to have at the very least, an average of
    2/week
A: I think this goal is achievable as it requires only a small commitment of time each week and can hopefully develop to 
    build a habit. By setting aside 15 minutes in my calendar, I can leave myself ample time to write and reflect upon my 
    experiences
R: This goal is reasonable as it is only requires a small change in my schedule to implement. I believe it is relevant as
    in my own life, I tend to often live in the present or future, and do not think on the past often enough (unless it is
    embarressing, unfortunately). By reflecting upon my experiences, hopefully I can learn more about what in life brings me 
    joy or sorrow, contentment, or even helps me achieve my goals. It may also be therapeutic to write these down.
T: This goal will begin in the final week of September and progress to the end of the semester where its progress will be 
    evaluated. If the experience is positive or yields some benefit, it may be continued into the new year indefinetly.
Reflection: My final goal, and the only one I was able to complete, was to keep a biweekly journal to write my thoughts and reflect on them. I have tried to do 
similar journals in the past and found myself unsuccessful, often losing focus after a few days. I’m proud that I was able to do so consistently over this term and 
start building the habit. Sometimes my thoughts were less profound then perhaps I’d like, but I think the basis of putting them on paper has benefit in providing 
clarity. I enjoyed writing them. It didn’t require a large change to my schedule, nor did it revolutionize my thinking. But I think there was a little therapeutic 
benefit to it, and at the end, I think I understand myself just a bit better. Going forward I would like to continue this process of writing my thoughts down at
regular intervals. It was a small change that made a lasting impact that I would like to see through as long as I can.One avenue this may progress to is more artistic 
avenues such as poetry or creative writing. These are often outlets for many people and may also be an option that I will enjoy. I think the journalling provides a
good base to begin exploring these other options. (219 Words)
