Via Characteristics
1) Love of Learning (Wisdom) - Masterning new skills, topics, and bodies of knoweldge, whether on one's own or formally; related to the strength of curiosity but goes 
beyond it to describe teh tendency to add systematically to what one knows
2) Curiosity (Wisdom) - Taking an interest in ongoing experience for its own sake; finding subjects and topics fascinating; exploring and discovering.
3) Kindness (Humanity) - Doing favors and good deeds for others; helping them; taking care of them.
4) Humor (Transcendence) - Liking to laugh and tease; bringing smiles to other people; seeing the light side; making (not necessarily telling) jokes.
5) Judgement (Wisdom) - Thinking things through and examining them from all sides; not jumping to conclusions; being able to change one's mind in light of evidence;
weighing all evidence fairly.
(VIA Institute on Character)

The VIA Strengths survey demonstrated to me that the predominat strengths that I may embody, or think I do, involve how I percieve the world. It is interesting seeing
these qualities displayed on the screen when they are a piece of my personality. I think the three wisdom qualities are all linked, curiosity of the world, being 
methodical as I process these perceptions, and above all a desire to do this action itself. I learn because I want to. I learn because my instinct is to take in this 
world and discern what I can. I think this is interesting in its contrast to the Humor and Kindness qualities which predominate. The methodical and logical way I 
interact with the world makes way for social settings. Kindness and humor. I can only wonder if these are genuine or represent tools to interact with people so that I
can learn more about them? These characteristics can tell me much about my strenths and my weaknesses. It may indicate that I am at my best when there is a novel thing
to learn about and I can apply my previous knowledge and work to make new understandings. It may also indicate that I am at my best when I can do this work for others
and make the world a better place. As useful as knowing these characteristics are, I think it is important to not make this a narrow view to fit into. The world should not
be exclusively viewed analytically, nor should all situations be navigated lightheartedly. These characteristics offer the opportunity for introspection and the prospect
to build on my strengths but are by no means perfectly representative of myself nor the end of my development.
